To begin using the grease pencil to draw our 2D face we need to first switch over to object mode so
we can select that GP base object.
Let's do that now.
With that grease pencil objects selected we can switch from object mode to draw mode.
Here we go.
And we've got these new tools now to draw.
We need to create a new layer so let's come over here and just click new and we can call this one our
eyes layer because we're gonna create eyes with that and let's come down to our materials panel here
and now we've got this material.
Let's call this one black fill because we want to create a filled circle with this.
So let's come down here to stroke.
We want a line yes with color black but we also want it to be filled.
So let's choose this as well.
So we've got solid and black as well so with our new layer created and our material created.
Let's come over here to the brush size.
Let's take the brush size pretty far down because I think this is going to be pretty small.
Let's.
Let's initially take it down to three and see how that works.
We could increase our strength all the way here and then let's come over here to the circle it's choose
that and in here let's just click and drag and see what happens and you can see there is our filled
circle.
I'm going to hold the Shift key down so it constrains it to a circle instead of an oval.
Analysts just create it right there.
That's good.
Now we can do more adjusting with these but I don't think we need to right now so I'll just hit enter
and there we go.
Now look over here.
There it is.
Right.
So you can see it on the face.
Now it's pulled out a bit from from the face.
And that's OK because once again this is just a temp setup so we can see our 2D face on the character.
Now I'd like to make that a bit smaller so just like any object we can tap into edit mode.
And then we can hit the a key and select that whole thing.
Then we can hit s and scale it in or in or out.
We can take our move tool and move it around and we go like that.
I think I'd like to get rid of the 3d cursor in the origin here just for now as well.
In this view let's come over here and under overlays let's get rid of the origin and the 3d cursor.
There we go just to clean that up a bit.
So let's put that about right here.
There we go.
I'll tap back into object mode for this character and for what we're doing here.
I'm going to have the eyes moving at the same time all the time I'm not going to have one eye blinking
when the other one is open.
So let me tap back into edit mode and I'm just gonna hit shift D and enter and then I'm going to drag
Grover.
And that's going to create the other eye there OK.
So if we tap into edit mode and we have our eyes they still look a little bit too big.
I mean go ahead and select everything over here and I'll just scale them down just a bit and maybe I'll
move them out a bit.
I'll just hit the B key and move this one out.
Some Alt A B key border select these and move them out some.
Let's try that.
OK so that's a good beginning there.
Now we're also going to need a mouth.
So let's go ahead and create a new layer.
I'll hit the Plus call it mouth and when I do this.
Notice that these layers are popping up over here on the grease pencil timeline.
Right.
So each time we create a layer here it appears over here.
All right.
So let me create a new grease pencil stroke by coming over here to draw.
And for this I'm going to create an arc I'm just going to click and then I'll click and drag and look
at this.
Now we've got something that almost looks like a mouth like a frown but it's filled.
I don't want that.
I'll hit enter and I'll press controls Zee and let's figure out what the problem is here what the issue
is is we're using this black fill material again.
Whereas we were using that for the eyes.
We need just a stroke for the mouth.
So let's come over here to the materials.
Let's create a new material here and I'll click new and let's call this black stroke that now we have
stroke line black and fill is unchecked.
So that's good.
Let's try it again now.
Come over here with this selected click and drag and there we go.
Now we can see we've got that drawn out once again with a frown.
We can take this handle right here and click and drag and drag that down like that and then let it enter.
Now that's OK.
But I think it's too thin.
Let's some undo this control Zee and I'm going to come up to the radius and Let's type in five and let's
see how this works.
Now when I clicked and dragged this way I got a frown.
Let's see what happens if I click and drag this way.
There we go.
Now I have a smile so I'll kind of put this right there.
Hit enter.
And there we go.
We've got a cheesy smile.
I think I'd like the smile to be not quite so arched.
So I'm going to press control Zee one more time and I'm going to click and drag this way like this again
and then I'm going to grab this handle and kind of move it up like that just a little bit like this.
There we go.
And I'll hit enter and there we go.
Now we've got the smile.
I'd like the eyebrows as well.
And for the eyebrows I think I may want to move those independently of each other so we may need to
create a new grease pencil layer for each one so we can move them easier.
Now we could do it with all all one layer.
But let me try it with two here.
So I'm going to hit the plus and we'll call this brow underscore ah and then I'll hit the plus and we'll
call this brow underscore Elle.
OK.
Let's try this for the brow on the right.
Let's go ahead and use this line tool here and I'll just click and drag like this and hit enter maybe
a little bit too big.
Let's control Zee and try that again.
Something like this maybe and hit enter.
OK.
And then or the other side.
I'll do the same thing and hit enter.
Okay.
Now if we want we can go in and change these.
So with the L selected here I'll hit the tab key and we can with the point selection tool enabled we
can select a point and I can hit the G key and move this out and make it longer.
I can delete that point and make it shorter so you can adjust these however you want.
Maybe I'll do like that.
Let's try that I think they're too high.
Me a tab into edit mode I'll hit the B key in border select this one.
Move this down like that s border select this one here.
Let's move that down like that.
Okay.
There we go.
I think now I want to adjust this a bit.
I feel like the eyes and the rounds can come down some so if I tab back into edit mode I may just grab
this and move these down a bit like this let's try that yeah that's good.
I also think the eyes should be a little bit smaller.
So I'm going to try this.
I'm going to select.
Actually I'll select them individually I'll hit s and scale this down a bit and then I'll grab this
one and scale it down a bit as well.
Just like that.
All right.
Now I think he's looking a little bit better.
So now that we have the face drawn and pretty much in place if we select the rig let me move over and
select the rig here and change to pose mode.
And if we select the head control see that that 2D face stays with the character.
But you can see over on the left hand side this doesn't move at all.
And this is how we're going to do our animation.
This is how we're going to be able to animate the character on the right here while having the 2D face
locked in place so we can do our drawing here.
All right.
Let me press Alt R to get that back.
The way it was and in the next video let's go ahead and work on creating the idle animation for the
body.
Get that timed out and then we'll create blink animations and maybe move the eyebrows around in sync
with the 3D body that's coming up next.